Let's start talking about the language,
Swift, okay?
That's the icon, that's the logo,
the little orange bird.
So Swift was created by
Apple a few years ago,
it was actually a complete surprise.
No one was actually waiting for that.
At WWDC, the Apple annual event,
they came with the idea that,
we have a new language.
Because at that time Objective C,
by the way,
Objective C was created in the 80s, okay?
Was actually looking we're for
most developers, so
that's why they created Swift, okay?
So just make a new step.
But it's not like any other Apple product
that they're used to, it's open-source.
So it's actually an open source language.
So Apple is actually the main
promoter of the language but
there is a consortium that is actually
upgrading the language or evolving
the language as other languages such as
the ACMA script and many other things.
And there are other big companies behind
Swift not just Apple, for example IBM.
IBM is also supporting Swift a lot and
actually you can bright
backhand Swift code in the IBM Cloud and
also another cloud systems but
because it's open source today
you have a compiler for Linux.
So that means that you can actually
run Swift code on any server and
that means you can do
back in Swift as well.
It's on a statically typed language.
So if you coming from JavaScript,
that sounds scary, the first time.
That means that if you have
a variable that variable will need to
have a type define.
If it's an integer, it's an integer, you
cannot insert something else there, okay?
However, it also has something
known as type inference and
we will see this in a minute in action.
Type inference means now happy face.
So if you were with sad face because
it sounded statically typed language
with type inference we
go back to a happy face.
Means that most of
the time you don't need to
actually explicitly say what
type do you want to use.
It will look like JavaScript but
have in mind behind the scenes
every variable has a type define.
It's mult-platform as we mentioned before.
Swift as a compiler for
Apple platforms, that's Intel based and
also the Apple platform
like the new M-1 chips.
But also the previous Apple platforms
that you have perhaps on an iPad,
those are not Intel based well
actually the Swift compiler
will compile code for those platforms.
But also we have a compiler for
Linux as I mentioned before.
So it's multi-platform.
It's easy to learn.
So, in the next probably hour,
you will get the full idea of Swift.
We cannot go into covering 100% of
Swift with just an introduction,
but you will feel at
home most of the time.
So it's easy to learn in this,
let's say in this decade.
So it's less ceremonial, okay?
That means that there are a lot of
code that we write every day and
Swift is trying all the time
to make that code shorter,
with less code, less bureaucracy,
that kind of idea.
Got some modern ideas implemented and
we're going to see that later.
So I'm not sure if this but
a lot of languages, a lot of platforms
are actually getting out of the official
classic OOP, Object Oriented Programming.
Like everything must be
a class like in Java.
So, we're getting out of that.
So maybe we're going to
use OOP when we feel,
okay we need that, but
also we have other options.
And it includes no safety.
And for some of you or most of you,
this is kind of new, okay?
So we will have some
minutes talking about this.
But actually, this is good news,
because it's reducing the amount of
bags that our code will have, okay?
The famous new pointer exception,
a new reference exception.
I'm not saying it's not gonna happen here,
but
it's going to be reduced a lot,
thanks to new safety.
And it's multi-paradigm, okay?
So if you wanna write an OOP,
you can do that.
If you wanna do linear programming,
it's okay, you can do that.
Event-based programming, you can do that.
Functional programming.
Protocol-based programming,
we're going to see what it is later.
So it's multi-paradigm, you pick
the paradigm that you want to use.
And of course you can mix and match.
It's not just OOP or
prototype-based like JavaScript.
You can pick the best for your project.
So, before actually seeing some code,
today we have some language types.
So for example,
in some languages developers write
source code in interpreted languages and
then you ship source code.
I mean, the most common example of these
kind of languages today is JavaScript.
Okay, you ship source code.
Even if you are transpiring that code or
doing some magic with that code anyway
what you are shipping is JavaScript, okay?
I'm taking web assembly
out of the equation.
Another kind of language today is
intermediate languages, that when you
need to compile your app and you're going
to ship something known as Bytecode.
That is not actually the final machine
code that is going to be executed by
the machine, we are writing code for
a built on machine.
The most common one is the Java
built-on machine, also .NET.
It's another example of JVM.
We can also say that JavaScript if
you have just in time compilation
can get there but
I'm not going to get so deep on that.
And then we have compiled languages, where
we actually need to ship machine code.
And if you're going to compile code for
Intel-based chips,
Intel-based CPUs,
it works only on Intel, okay?
Not on another platform.
So actually this is where we
are right now with Swift.
Swift is a compiled language.
We are going to compile code, okay?
I know that if you are a full stack
developer, if you are just doing web,
that also sounds scary, it sounds like,
I don't know C or something like that.
But it's also complicated.
There are some differences when
we're doing these kinds of apps but
it's not a big deal, okay?
But Swift is actually a compiled language,
okay?
And what we're gonna be building
are actually iPhone applications.
So the result of our project
is gonna be an IPA file.
It's an iPhone application, actually
even if it works on iPad, it's called
an iPhone application because they created
this file format when the iPhone appeared.
So, the IPA file is just a ZIP package,
so you can actually unzip it and
see what's inside after you build it.
So, it includes our compiled Swift code,
meta data,
we're going to see what meta data is,
and assets.
Images, icons, PDF,
whatever we're shipping with the ABI
can also be HTML if you want,
you can actually ship a web app.
In fact, if you have phone gap or hybrid
elements, this is how it works, okay?
So you ship in the assets a web app,
HTML, CSS and JavaScript.
So that's what we're going to build.
And that iPhone application,
and this is important,
is installable only officially
through the App Store, okay?
So you cannot send the IPA file to
another person through email and
ask them to install that
through USB cable or
something like that, or
directly from the mail application.
It doesn't work like that, okay?
On Android, you can,
let's say decrease security and
then you can install an IAPK that
is not coming from the store,
but that's not gonna happen so
simply on iOS, okay?
So you actually need to publish
that app to the App Store.
Also you have enterprise distribution.
So if you're making apps for
a corporation, for
a company that has employees with
iPhones or iPads, well actually you can
ship an internal app that is not actually
public so it's not in the App Store.
And for us we can also install
our app in our iPhone or iPad.
If you have an iPhone or an iPad,
you will be able to install
your app from Xcode, okay?
But only on your development computers or
your developer devices,
that's kind of the idea, okay?
That means that if you're going to
make a Swift application like the one
that we're going to do today and you
wanna share that application with others,
you actually need to
technically use the App Store.
The App Store has something
known as TestFlight inside,
TestFlight lets you create some alpha
testing and beta testing programs.
So you can actually share your
app with other users without
actually making the app public for
everyone, okay?
But for that, you will need to pay for
an Apple Developer Account and
follow some rules.
To test on your own iPhone, your own app,
you don't need to pay anything